Goldilocks and the Three Bears

Once upon a time a girl named Goldilocks lived in 
a house at the edge of the woods. In those days 
curls of hair were called "locks."  She was 
"Goldilocks" because golden hair ran down her head 
and shoulders.   

One morning Goldilocks was out for a walk when she 
came across a beautiful bird.  She followed that 
bird right into the woods, where her mother had 
said many times she must never go.  But Goldilocks 
didn’t think of that.

Deeper and deeper into the woods she went. But 
where was the bird?  It was nowhere to be seen.  
Goldilocks looked around.  That's when she knew 
she was lost.  

But a house was not far away.  “I wonder who lives 
there,” she thought, "so deep into the woods."  

She went up and knocked on the door.  No answer.  
She knocked again.  Still no answer.  Goldilocks 
knocked a third time and the door opened. But no 
one was behind the door.  

“Well, the door is already open,” said the girl. 
“So I may as well go in.”

"I may as well go in." 

Goldilocks smelled a wonderful smell, and soon 
knew why. On the table were three steaming bowls 
of oatmeal.  All of a sudden she realized how very 
hungry she was.

What Goldilocks did not know, however, is that 
three bears lived in this house.  In fact, that 
very morning the three bears had sat down to their 
bowls of oatmeal but the cereal was too hot.  So 
they had decided to take a short walk.  They said 
to each other, "By the time we return home our 
oatmeal will be perfect."

Gazing at the steaming bowls of oatmeal, Goldilocks 
thought, “I'm sure whoever lives here won’t mind if
 I take just one sip.” She sat at the first chair 
 and took a sip.  “Ah!” she said, “it is too hot.”

She moved to the next bowl and took a sip.  “Ah!” 
she said, “it is too cold.”

She moved to the third bowl and took a sip.  “It is 
just right!” And before she knew it, the oatmeal 
was all gone.  

Goldilocks rubbed her tummy.  “I'm full! I must 
find somewhere to sit that's more comfortable.”  

She went to the living room.  Three chairs were 
lined up in a row – one big chair, one medium-sized 
chair, and a wee little chair.

Three chairs were lined up in a row.

“I'm sure whoever lives here will not mind if I sit 
on just one chair,” said Goldilocks. She sat on the
 big chair, but it was too hard. 

“The next chair looks good,” said Goldilocks.  She 
moved to the medium-sized chair, but it was too soft.

“The wee little chair looks better,” said the girl.  
She sat on the little chair and it was just right!  
But when Goldilocks leaned back a bit, the chair 
broke into a dozen pieces.  She plopped right on 
the floor.

“Oh, no!” Goldilocks wailed. Then she yawned.  
There must be somewhere she could lie down for a 
short nap.

"Oh, no!" Goldilocks wailed.

The girl saw a ladder and climbed it to an attic.  
In a row, three beds were lined up – one big bed, 
one medium-sized bed, and a wee little bed.  

“I'm sure whoever lives here won’t mind if I lay 
down for just a short nap,” she said.  She laid 
down on the big bed but it was too hard.  She laid 
down on the medium-sized bed but it was too soft.  
The girl laid down on the wee little bed, and it 
was just right!  As her head hit the pillow, 
Goldilocks was fast asleep.

Just then, the three bears came home from their 
walk.  "Oh, my!" said Mama Bear. “Did either of 
you leave the front door open?” 

Just then, the three bears came home from their 
walk.

“Not I,” said Papa Bear. 

"Not I," said Little Bear.

Slowly the three bears stepped inside and looked 
around.    

“Most odd!” said Papa Bear, seeing his spoon in his 
bowl.  “Someone has been eating my oatmeal!”

“Most odd indeed!” said Mama Bear, also seeing her 
spoon in her bowl.  “Someone has been eating my 
oatmeal!”

“This is the most odd of all!” said Little Bear.  
“Someone has been eating my oatmeal and they ate it 
all up!”

"This is the most odd of all!" said Little Bear.
 
The three bears were very surprised, as you can 
imagine.  With care, they stepped into their living 
room.

“Do you think someone was sitting in my chair?” 
said Papa Bear.

“I know someone was sitting in my chair,” said Mama 
Bear, “because I can see the seat cushion is pushed 
down.”

“And I know someone was sitting in my chair!” said 
Little Bear. “Because it’s all broken!”

The three bears were even more surprised at that!  
They climbed the ladder to their attic.  

“Someone has been sleeping on my bed,” said Papa 
Bear, who could see that his blankets were moved.

“Someone has been sleeping on my bed, too,” said 
Mama Bear, who could also see that her blankets 
were moved.

“Someone has been sleeping on my bed,” said Little 
Bear. “And look - she is still there!”

Goldilocks bolted awake.  Three bears were looming 
over her, and they did not look happy.

“Oh my!” said Goldilocks, jumping out of bed.  As 
quick as she could, she climbed down the ladder and 
ran out the front door.

Little Bear chased after her.  "Wait, please!"

Goldilocks stopped and turned around. 

"Tell me," said Little Bear, “Why did you come 
inside our house?”

Goldilocks stopped and turned around.

“I guess I didn’t think–,“ said Goldilocks. 

“And why did you eat my oatmeal?” said Little Bear.

“Well I guess I didn’t think–,“ said Goldilocks.

“And why did you break my chair and sleep in my bed?” said Little Bear.

“Well I guess I didn’t think about that, either,” 
said Goldilocks.

They were silent.

Goldilocks said, “I suppose I could have waited 
outside your door.”

“We were coming right home,” said Mama Bear.  
"We might have invited you in if we knew you were 
hungry."

"We might have invited you in."

“I’m sorry about the chair,” said Goldilocks.  
“I guess you saw it broke.”

"Yep," said Mama Bear with a frown.

“I’m good at fixing things,” said Goldilocks, 
“If you have glue.”

“Of course we have glue!” said Papa Bear. “What 
kind of bears do you think we are?”

“I will make it up to you!” said Goldilocks. 

“Come on in then, dear,” said Mama Bear. 

“We'll start over,” said Papa Bear with a nod.

“Come in, come in!” said Little Bear, jumping up 
and down.  

With smiles, they skipped together inside the 
Bear’s house.


Source:
https://storiestogrowby.org/story/goldilocks-and-the-three-bears-bedtime-stories-for-kids/