Hansel and Gretel ~ Bedtime Stories for Kids 
 

Once upon a time a brother and sister named Hansel 
and Gretel lived in a hut in the woods with their 
father.  Their father was a poor woodcutter.  His 
wife, their mother, had died when the two children 
were very young. Their father thought he would not 
be lonely anymore when he finally re-married.  But 
the new stepmother made life very hard for Hansel 
and Gretel.  The children were not allowed to eat 
until after the stepmother had taken everything she 
wanted off the plates.  Most of the time, there was 
only a crust of bread left.  And all day long were 
hard chores for them to do.

Hansel and Gretel tried to tell their father about 
this but he would not hear of it.  It seemed the 
only one he would listen to was his wife.  And all 
the stepmother talked about was how much trouble it 
was to have children in the hut, and how much she 
wished they would go away forever. 

Each day there was less and less food for the boy 
and girl to eat.  Yet the stepmother gave them more 
and more hard work to do.  One day Gretel begged her
father, “Please, Father!  All day long we work hard 
and we’re hungry!”  But the stepmother slapped her 
face. “You ungrateful brats!" she yelled.  "You will 
eat us out of house and home!” 

That night the two children were not allowed to 
sleep in the hut. Outside in the cold, they shivered 
and tried to keep each other warm.  Winter was 
coming, and the clothes they wore were so thin it 
felt almost as if they had no clothes on at all.

They shivered and tried to keep each other warm.
 
The next morning when the sun rose, Gretel turned to 
her little brother. “Hansel,” she said, “we cannot 
stay here.  We must escape now, today, into the 
woods!  Surely we will find more to eat when we are 
on our own than what we get here at home.”

“Do you think?” said Hansel. "But what if we get 
lost?”

“We won’t!” said Gretel.  “I will take bread.  We 
will drop breadcrumbs behind us.  If we have to, we 
can follow the crumbs back home.”

And so the two of them went off into the woods and 
left their hard life behind. 

They went deeper and deeper into the woods.  Gretel 
was careful to drop one crumb and then after a bit, 
another.

But alas!  They looked and looked for any sign of 
something to eat - an apple tree, pear tree, some 
nuts on the ground, or even dried-up berries.  There 
was nothing to eat!  They got hungrier and hungrier. 
At last, poor Hansel and Gretel knew they must 
return to their hut or they would surely starve. 
They would just need to find the breadcrumbs and 
that would lead them home.   Yet when they looked 
for breadcrumbs, there were none to be found - all 
the breadcrumbs were gone! 

A bird whooshed up into the air and in its beak was 
a large crumb.  Hansel and Gretel were struck with 
grief – the birds must have taken all their 
breadcrumbs!  A wolf howled in the distance.  The 
sun was setting.  Hansel and Gretel were lost and 
hungry.  Now they were scared, too.

“Gretel,” whispered Hansel in fear, “what will we 
do?”  She did not know what to say. All she could 
do was to hug her little brother. Each minute it was 
getting darker and darker. Again, a wolf howled in 
the distance. 

All of a sudden, Gretel saw a small light shining 
far away.  Could it be someone's hut this deep in 
the woods?  “We must find out!” cried Gretel.  
“Maybe whoever lives there is kind and will take us 
in.”

The two children sped as fast as they could to the 
light.

When they got closer, they could not believe their 
eyes!  If you can imagine – from top to bottom the 
hut was made all of candy!  From its gingerbread 
roof, with frosting all over the walls, and with 
candies tucked into the frosting, what a sight to 
see!

“Gretel!”  Hansel cried out.  Before Gretel could 
say: “I bet it will be okay if we have just a little 
taste,” both of them were already biting off small 
chunks and licking the sweet candy.

A sharp voice!– “WHO is nibbling on my house?” 
Hansel and Gretel spun around.  An old witch!

Stunned, Gretel could only curtsy.  "If you please, 
ma’am,” she said, as sweetly as she could. “There 
was so much candy on your house.  And we are so 
hungry!”

“You have that right, MY house!" snapped the witch.  
Her voice dropped.  "Well then,” said the witch in 
a gentler tone, “come inside.  I'll get something 
for you to eat.”

Hansel and Gretel looked at each other in delight.  
They skipped into the witch’s hut.

They skipped into the witch's hut.
 
A fine meal of soup and bread.  As they licked the 
last crust of bread and looked around the hut, what 
the brother and sister saw made their hearts turn 
cold.  Piles and piles of bones in the corners!  
Yet the two children were very tired, and so they 
slept.

The next morning when they woke, Hansel found 
himself locked in a cage.  The witch roared, “That's 
where your brother will stay!  Every day I will 
fatten him up.  Soon he will make me a fine dinner!”  
She laughed and laughed, rubbing her hands with 
glee.  “Till then,” she said sharply to Gretel, 
“you will work for me.”

Indeed, Hansel was well fed and Gretel worked hard 
all day doing chores for the witch. 

Each morning the witch said to the boy, “Show me 
your finger.  I will feel how plump you are 
getting.”  For the old witch could not see well.  
Hansel held out his finger as he was told.  The 
witch smiled when she felt how plump he was getting.

“Gretel,” Hansel whispered in fear. “What are we to 
do? Soon I will be plump enough and the witch will 
want to eat me!”  His sister wished she had a plan, 
but could not think of anything. 

"Gretl," Hansel whispered in fear.  "What are we to 
do?"
 
One night when the witch was sleeping, Gretel had 
an idea.  She picked up a bone from one of the piles 
on the floor and woke her brother. “Hansel,” she 
said, “the next time the witch asks to see your 
finger, hold out this bone to her instead.” 

The next morning, he did just that.  “Hmph!” said 
the witch, touching the bone and thinking it was 
the boy’s finger.  “This is going to take longer 
than I thought!”

“At least I have more time,” Gretel thought. But 
still, she could not think of any way they could 
get out of there.

Each morning when the witch said, “Show me your 
finger,” Hansel held out the thin bone.  One day 
the witch yelled, “I will not wait another day!  
The boy will be my dinner tonight, no matter how 
skinny he is!”  The witch ordered Gretel to start 
the fire in the oven at once.  She must get it very 
hot.  Gretel worked as slowly as she could.  Why 
was the witch looking at her with such a sly smile? 

“Be a dear,” said the witch with a slow grim.  “Go 
inside the oven, won’t you?  Tell me if it is hot 
enough.”

Gretel’s heart skipped a beat.  If she did that, 
the witch could push her inside and she would eat 
them both! 

She looked down.  “I am not sure how to tell.”

"Go inside the oven, won't you?"
 
“Nonsense!” said the witch.  “Nothing could be 
easier.  Just go in!”

“Um,” said Gretel slowly, “please show me first?”

“Stupid girl!” snapped the witch.  Mumbling and 
grumbling, she stepped in the oven.  The moment the 
witch was inside Gretel quickly slammed the door.

"Gretel!” Hansel cried out.  “You saved us!”  

The sister tried to think fast.  “Where is that key 
to your cage?”  She looked and looked.  At last she 
found it at the bottom of a vase.  She freed her 
brother from the cage right away.  Then she went 
back to that vase.  For what had she felt under the 
key?  Why, the vase had precious jewels inside!

Then she went back to that vase.
 
With their pockets filled with the jewels, they ran 
outside as fast as they could.  In the daylight they 
soon found a small path and followed it.  It led to 
a wider path and that  path led to a road.  They 
waited by the roadside hoping someone would ride by.  
When a horseman trotted up, Hansel and Gretel waved 
their hands.  When the horseman stopped, the 
children offered one of the small jewels and the 
horseman was happy to give them a ride home. 

When the brother and sister opened the door to their 
home, their father was wild with joy to see them.  
He had worried and looked for them night and day 
since they had vanished.  They learned their 
stepmother died very soon after they left.  For 
many years to come, Hansel and Gretel lived very 
happily with their father in the hut in the woods.


Source:
https://storiestogrowby.org/story/hansel-and-gretel-bedtime-stories-for-kids/